Article 6577 of comp.sys.amiga:
Path: mcdsun!noao!hao!husc6!cmcl2!rutgers!mtune!codas!usfvax2!jc3b21!fgd3
From: fgd3@jc3b21.UUCP (Fabbian G. Dufoe)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga
Subject: Shell Archive Programs for Amiga
Keywords: shell archive sh shar source amiga
Message-ID: <130@jc3b21.UUCP>
Date: 22 Jul 87 16:20:08 GMT
Organization: St. Petersburg Jr. College, FL
Lines: 1035


     Here are two programs to pack and unpack shell archives on the Amiga.
Shell archives are great on Unix systems.  They simplify handling
collections of files and everybody has the software to unpack them.  There
are several other protocols which simplify shipping collections of files by
phone.  The trouble with them is you need compatibile software at both ends
of the line.

     Shell archives are more forgiving.  If you don't have the software to
pack and unpack them you can treat them like ordinary text files.  You can
even unpack them by hand.  That's a real pain, though, so I wrote these
programs.

     Shar packs a shell archive and Sh unpacks it.  Any Unix system can
unpack a shell archive created by my Shar program.  In fact, my Shar program
will compile and run on Unix System/V on an AT&T 3B2.  My Sh program can
unpack shell archives created by many Unix Shar programs.

     This is how I handle shell archives which my Sh can't unpack.  My
Usenet access is via an AT&T 3B2 running Unix System/V.  I unpack the shell
archive on the 3B2, then repack it with my Shar.  Then I download it to my
Amiga and unpack it with Sh.  That's why I wrote Shar to be portable.

     The code was written for the Lattice AmigaDOS C Compiler, version 3.10.
If you have that compiler you can compile both programs by executing
Makefile once you have unpacked the shell archive.  If you have the Aztec C
compiler I can't help you.  The code is vanilla C, so I don't think you'll
have any trouble compiling it.  But I don't know the compiler commands you
need.

     I hope you'll find these programs useful.  Perhaps I should apologize
for posting them to comp.sys.amiga.  I never see anything in
comp.sources.amiga but I see a lot of articles in comp.sys.amiga lamenting 
the disappearance of things posted to one of those other groups.  From that 
I've learned not to trust them.  Feel free to pass the code on to 
comp.sources.amiga if you think that would help.

--Fabbian Dufoe
  350 Ling-A-Mor Terrace South
  St. Petersburg, Florida  33705
  813-823-2350

UUCP: ...seismo!akgua!usfvax2!jc3b21!fgd3 
-------------------------------cut here-------------------------------------
